1. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
· In 1897, African American inventor Andrew Beard invented an automatic coupler.
· It improved on the existing design of train car couplers.
· It made the job of connecting train cars safer.
· In 1938, African American inventor Frederick Jones invented a mobile refrigeration
system.
· It improved on the existing design of food transport trucks.
· It enabled trucks to carry perishable foods farther.
The student wants to emphasize a similarity between Beard's invention and Jones's
invention. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to
accomplish this goal?
A. Jones's mobile refrigeration system, which he invented in 1938, made it possible
for food transport trucks to carry perishable foods farther.
B. In 1897, Beard invented an automatic coupler, which made the job of connecting
train cars safer.
C. Beard's automatic coupler and Jones's mobile refrigeration system both improved
on existing designs.
D. Beard's invention made the job of connecting train cars safer, whereas Jones's
invention enabled food transport trucks to carry perishables farther.

2. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
· In 1971, experimental musician Pauline Oliveros created Sonic Meditations.
· Sonic Meditations is not music but rather a series of sound-based exercises called
meditations.
· Each meditation consists of instructions for participants to make, imagine, listen to,
or remember sounds.
· The instructions for Meditation V state, "walk so silently that the bottoms of your
feet become ears."
· Those for Meditation XVIII state, "listen to a sound until you no longer recognize it."
The student wants to provide an explanation and an example of Oliveros's Sonic
Meditations. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes
to accomplish this goal?
A. Sonic Meditations is not music but rather a series of sound-based meditations
that consist of instructions; Meditation XVIII, for instance, instructs participants to
"listen to a sound until you no longer recognize it."
B. While both meditations consist of instructions, Meditation XVIII instructs
participants to "listen," whereas Meditation V instructs participants to "walk."
C. In 1971, Oliveros created Sonic Meditations, a series of meditations that consist
of instructions for participants to make, imagine, listen to, or remember sounds.
D. Walk so silently that the bottoms of your feet become ears is one example of the
instructions found in Oliveros's Sonic Meditations.

3. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
· Platinum is a rare and expensive metal.
· It is used as a catalyst for chemical reactions.
· Platinum catalysts typically require a large amount of platinum to be effective.
· Researcher Jianbo Tang and his colleagues created a platinum catalyst that
combines platinum with liquid gallium.
· Their catalyst was highly effective and required only trace amounts of platinum
(0.0001% of the atoms in the mixture).
The student wants to explain an advantage of the new platinum catalyst developed
by Jianbo Tang and his colleagues. Which choice most effectively uses relevant
information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. Like other platinum catalysts, the new platinum catalyst requires a particular
amount of the metal to be effective.
B. Platinum is a rare and expensive metal that is used as a catalyst for chemical
reactions; however, platinum catalysts typically require a large amount of platinum to
be effective.
C. While still highly effective, the new platinum catalyst requires far less of the rare
and expensive metal than do other platinum catalysts.
D. Researcher Jianbo Tang and his colleagues created a platinum catalyst that
combines platinum, a rare and expensive metal, with liquid gallium.

4. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
· Annie Wu is a prominent American flutist who graduated from the New England
Conservatory.
· She has won multiple national flute competitions.
· She is best known for a 2011 YouTube video that has been viewed over two million
times.
· The video shows her performing Three Beats for Beatbox Flute, an original work by
composer Greg Pattillo.
· Wu combines flute playing and beatboxing in the video.
The student wants to emphasize Wu's most well-known achievement. Which choice
most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. Among her many achievements, prominent American flutist Annie Wu graduated
from the New England Conservatory and has won multiple national flute
competitions.
B. Composer Greg Pattillo's original work Three Beats for Beatbox Flute combines
flute playing and beatboxing.
C. Annie Wu is best known for a 2011 YouTube video performance of Three Beats for
Beatbox Flute that has been viewed over two million times.
D. Annie Wu, who has won multiple national flute competitions, has also combined
flute playing and beatboxing.

5. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
· In 1978, Sámi activists staged protests to block the construction of a dam on the
Alta River in Norway.
· The dam would disrupt Sámi fishing and reindeer herding.
· The dam was ultimately built, but the Alta conflict had a lasting impact.
· It brought international attention to the issue of Sámi rights.
· It led to a set of 2005 legal protections establishing Sámi rights to lands, waters,
and resources.
The student wants to make and support a generalization about the Alta conflict.
Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to
accomplish this goal?
A. Sámi rights to lands, waters, and resources received international attention and
legal protections as a result of the Alta conflict.
B. During the Alta conflict, Sámi activists staged protests to block the construction
of a dam on the Alta River in Norway that would disrupt local fishing and reindeer
herding.
C. Although the dam that the Sámi activists had protested was ultimately built, the
Alta conflict had a lasting impact.
D. The Alta conflict had a lasting impact, resulting in international attention and legal
protections for Sámi rights to lands, waters, and resources.

6. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
· A wok is a cooking pan that originated in China during the Han dynasty (206
BCE–220 CE).
· The wok's round, wide base helps to cook food evenly.
· The wok's high, angled sides help to contain oil splatters.
· Grace Young is a cook and culinary historian.
· Her book The Breath of a Wok (2004) traces the history of the wok.
The student wants to describe the wok's shape. Which choice most effectively uses
relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. Grace Young's 2004 book, The Breath of a Wok, traces the history of the cooking
pan.
B. A wok is a cooking pan with a round, wide base and high, angled sides.
C. The design of a wok, a type of cooking pan that originated in China during the Han
dynasty, helps the pan cook food evenly and contain oil splatters.
D. Able to cook food evenly and contain oil splatters, the wok is the subject of Grace
Young's 2004 book.

7. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
· In 2013, paleontology professor Hesham Sallam and his students from Mansoura
University in Egypt made a discovery.
· The team found a partial dinosaur skeleton at a site in Egypt's Dakhla Oasis.
· The skeleton belonged to a dinosaur species that lived approximately 80 million
years ago.
· The new species was named Mansourasaurus to recognize the team that
discovered it.
The student wants to explain the origin of the species' name. Which choice most
effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. The new species was named Mansourasaurus to recognize the team that
discovered it, a professor and students from Mansoura University.
B. Mansourasaurus, a species that lived approximately 80 million years ago, was
discovered in 2013 by Egyptian paleontologist Hesham Sallam and a team of
university students.
C. Mansourasaurus, a new species discovered in Egypt in 2013, lived approximately
80 million years ago.
D. A partial dinosaur skeleton found in Egypt's Dakhla Oasis belonged to a species
named Mansourasaurus.

8. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● In the midst of the US Civil War, Susie Taylor escaped slavery and fled to
Union-army-occupied St. Simons Island off the Georgia coast.
● She began working for an all-Black army regiment as a nurse and teacher.
● In 1902, she published a book about the time she spent with the regiment.
● Her book was the only Civil War memoir to be published by a Black woman.
● It is still available to readers in print and online.
The student wants to emphasize the uniqueness of Taylor’s accomplishment. Which
choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this
goal?
A. Taylor fled to St. Simons Island, which was then occupied by the Union army,
for whom she began working.
B. After escaping slavery, Taylor began working for an all-Black army regiment as
a nurse and teacher.
C. The book Taylor wrote about the time she spent with the regiment is still
available to readers in print and online.
D. Taylor was the only Black woman to publish a Civil War memoir.

9. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● The melting rate of glaciers varies based on air temperature.
● In the warm summer months, massive glaciers on the coast of Greenland melt
into the surrounding water.
● The melting glaciers contribute to rising sea levels each summer.
● Huge icebergs also break off Greenland’s glaciers into the water and melt.
● In 2017, geoscientist Twila Moon found that the iceberg melting rate depends
not on air temperature but on water temperature.
● Because water temperature is consistent, melting icebergs contribute to rising
sea levels all year.
The student wants to emphasize a similarity between glaciers and icebergs in Greenland. Which
choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. Because icebergs break off Greenland’s glaciers into the water, their melting rate
depends on water temperature.
B. Greenland’s glaciers and icebergs both melt during the year, contributing to rising sea
levels.
C. Geoscientist Twila Moon found that the melting rate of Greenland’s icebergs, unlike that
of glaciers, does not depend on air temperature.
D. Glaciers on the coast of Greenland melt during the warm summer months into the
surrounding water, the temperature of which remains consistent throughout the year.

10. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● Cities tend to have a wide range of flowering vegetation in parks, yards, and
gardens.
● This vegetation provides a varied diet for honeybees, strengthening bees’
immune systems.
● On average, 62.5 percent of bees in an urban area will survive a harsh winter.
● Rural areas are often dominated by monoculture crops such as corn or wheat.
● On average, only 40 percent of honeybees in a rural area will survive a harsh
winter.
The student wants to make and support a generalization about honeybees. Which choice most
effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. Cities tend to have a wider range of flowering vegetation than do rural areas, which are
often dominated by monoculture crops.
B. In urban areas, over 60 percent of honeybees, on average, will survive a harsh winter,
whereas in rural areas, only 40 percent will.
C. The strength of honeybees’ immune systems depends on what the bees eat, and a
varied diet is more available to bees in an urban area than to those in a rural area.
D. Honeybees are more likely to thrive in cities than in rural areas because the varied diet
available in urban areas strengthens the bees’ immune systems.

11. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● In 2018 researchers Adwait Deshpande, Shreejata Gupta, and Anindya Sinha
were observing wild macaques in India’s Bandipur National Park.
● They saw macaques calling out to and gesturing at humans who were eating
or carrying food.
● They designed a study to find out if the macaques were intentionally
communicating to try to persuade the humans to share their food.
● In the study trials, macaques frequently called out to and gestured at humans
holding food.
● In the study trials, macaques called out to and gestured at empty-handed
humans less frequently.
The student wants to present the study’s results. Which choice most effectively uses relevant
information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. Macaques in the study called out to and gestured more frequently at humans holding
food than at empty-handed humans.
B. In 2018, researchers who had observed macaques in India’s Bandipur National Park
calling out to and gesturing at humans designed a study.
C. The researchers hoped to find out if the macaques were intentionally communicating to
try to persuade humans to share their food.
D. The researchers studied how macaques behaved around both humans holding food and
empty-handed humans.

12. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● In 2013, archaeologists studied cat bone fragments they had found in the
ruins of Quanhucun, a Chinese farming village.
● The fragments were estimated to be 5,300 years old.
● A chemical analysis of the fragments revealed that the cats had consumed
large amounts of grain.
● The grain consumption is evidence that the Quanhucun cats may have been
domesticated.
The student wants to present the Quanhucun study and its conclusions. Which choice most
effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. As part of a 2013 study of cat domestication, a chemical analysis was conducted on cat
bone fragments found in Quanhucun, China.
B. A 2013 analysis of cat bone fragments found in Quanhucun, China, suggests that cats
there may have been domesticated 5,300 years ago.
C. In 2013, archaeologists studied what cats in Quanhucun, China, had eaten more than
5,000 years ago.
D. Cat bone fragments estimated to be 5,300 years old were found in Quanhucun, China, in
2013.

13. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● Muckrakers were journalists who sought to expose corruption in US
institutions during the Progressive Era (1897–1920).
● Ida Tarbell was a muckraker who investigated the Standard Oil Company.
● She interviewed Standard Oil Company executives, oil industry workers, and
public officials.
● She examined thousands of pages of the company’s internal communications,
including letters and financial records.
● Her book The History of the Standard Oil Company (1904) exposed the
company’s unfair business practices.
The student wants to emphasize the thoroughness of Ida Tarbell’s investigation of the Standard
Oil Company. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to
accomplish this goal?
A. Ida Tarbell not only interviewed Standard Oil executives, oil industry workers, and public
officials but also examined thousands of pages of the company’s internal
communications.
B. Ida Tarbell, who investigated the Standard Oil Company, was a muckraker (a journalist
who sought to expose corruption in US institutions during the Progressive Era,
1897–1920).
C. As part of her investigation of the Standard Oil Company, muckraker Ida Tarbell
conducted interviews.
D. Published in 1904, muckraker Ida Tarbell’s book The History of the Standard Oil
Company exposed the company’s unfair business practices.

14. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● John Carver was one of the 41 signatories of the Mayflower Compact.
● The Mayflower Compact was a legal agreement among the pilgrims that
immigrated to Plymouth Colony.
● It was created in 1620 to establish a common government.
● It states that the pilgrims who signed it wanted to “plant the first colony in the
northern parts of Virginia” under King James.
● Carver became the first governor of Plymouth Colony.
The student wants to specify the reason the Mayflower Compact was created. Which choice
most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. Stating that its signatories wanted to “plant the first colony in the northern parts of
Virginia,” the Mayflower Compact was a legal agreement among the pilgrims that
immigrated to Plymouth Colony.
B. Created in 1620, the Mayflower Compact states that the pilgrims wanted to “plant the first
colony in the northern parts of Virginia.”
C. The Mayflower Compact was created to establish a common government among the
pilgrims that immigrated to Plymouth Colony.
D. The Mayflower Compact had 41 signatories, including John Carver, the first governor of
Plymouth Colony.

15. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● Two opposing theories of vision divided scholars for many centuries.
● The ancient Greek mathematician Euclid (circa 300 BCE) supported the
extramission theory.
● This theory held that the eyes emit a form of radiation that illuminates objects
in its range.
● The ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle (384–322 BCE) supported the
intromission theory.
● This theory held that objects emit a form of radiation that reaches the eyes.
● In the eleventh century, Arab mathematician Ibn al-Haytham (965–1040 CE)
largely settled the debate with the first conclusive experiments supporting
intromission.
The student wants to provide a historical overview of the two theories. Which choice most
effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. Scholars were divided between the extramission and intromission theories of vision until
Ibn al-Haytham’s eleventh-century experiments largely settled the debate in support of
intromission.
B. Through two opposing theories of vision—extramission and intromission—Euclid,
Aristotle, and Ibn al-Haytham held that a form of radiation is emitted either from objects
or from the eyes.
C. While Ibn al-Haytham largely settled the debate in the eleventh century, Aristotle
supported the theory of intromission centuries before.
D. Before the eleventh century, the ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle supported the
intromission theory, which held that objects emit a form of radiation that reaches the
eyes.

16. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● In 1971, experimental musician Pauline Oliveros created Sonic Meditations.
● Sonic Meditations is not music but rather a series of sound-based exercises
called meditations.
● Each meditation consists of instructions for participants to make, imagine,
listen to, or remember sounds.
● The instructions for Meditation V state, “walk so silently that the bottoms of
your feet become ears.”
● Those for Meditation XVIII state, “listen to a sound until you no longer
recognize it.”
The student wants to provide an explanation and an example of Oliveros’s Sonic Meditations.
Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. Sonic Meditations is not music but rather a series of sound-based meditations that
consist of instructions; Meditation XVIII, for instance, instructs participants to “listen to a
sound until you no longer recognize it.”
B. In 1971, Oliveros created Sonic Meditations, a series of meditations that consist of
instructions for participants to make, imagine, listen to, or remember sounds.
C. “Walk so silently that the bottoms of your feet become ears” is one example of the
instructions found in Oliveros’s Sonic Meditations.
D. While both meditations consist of instructions, Meditation XVIII instructs participants to
“listen,” whereas Meditation V instructs participants to “walk.”

17. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● British musicians John Lennon and Paul McCartney shared writing credit for
numerous Beatles songs.
● Many Lennon-McCartney songs were actually written by either Lennon or
McCartney, not by both.
● The exact authorship of specific parts of many Beatles songs, such as the
verse for “In My Life,” is disputed.
● Mark Glickman, Jason Brown, and Ryan Song used statistical methods to
analyze the musical content of Beatles songs.
● They concluded that there is 18.9% probability that McCartney wrote the
verse for “In My Life,” stating that the verse is “consistent with Lennon’s
songwriting style.”
The student wants to make a generalization about the kind of study conducted by Glickman,
Brown, and Song. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to
accomplish this goal?
A. Based on statistical analysis, Glickman, Brown, and Song claim that John Lennon wrote
the verse of “In My Life.”
B. There is only an 18.9% probability that Paul McCartney wrote the verse for “In My Life”;
John Lennon is the more likely author.
C. It is likely that John Lennon, not Paul McCartney, wrote the verse for “In My Life.”
D. Researchers have used statistical methods to address questions of authorship within the
field of music.

18. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
. Social media platforms offer various ways for individuals to connect, share, and
communicate online
. Some platforms, like Twitter, emphasize brevity with a character limit for messages,
while others, like YouTube allow creates to pick the length of their content
. Some YouTube Creators only create Shorts, videos which can be a maximum of 60
seconds long
. Some YouTube Creators create full length films.
The student wants to make generalization about the content shared on YouTube.
Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to
accomplish this goal?
A) Social media platforms cater to different communication preferences, from the
short messages of Twitter to the longer-form content of YouTube.
B) While some YouTube Creators produce videos lasting 60 seconds or less, others
make lengthy films.
C) The length of a video on YouTube can vary significantly in its length.
D) Twitter emphasizes brevity while YouTube lacks constraints on its content.

19. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● Freddie Wong (born 1985) is a director and special effects artist from the
United States.
● He is best known for the action-comedy web series Video Game High School
(VGHS).
● VGHS premiered in 2012 on RocketJump, a YouTube channel that Wong
cocreated.
● The series was celebrated for its inventive video game–centric world and
high-quality special effects.
● VGHS was nominated for a Producers Guild Award for Outstanding Digital
Series.
The student wants to begin a narrative about Wong’s award-nominated web series. Which choice
most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A. In 2012, director and visual effects artist Freddie Wong launched a new action-comedy
web series: Video Game High School.
B. Video Game High School was celebrated for its inventive video game–centric world and
high-quality special effects, and it was nominated for a Producer’s Guild Award for
Outstanding Digital Series.
C. Wong, cocreator of the YouTube channel RocketJump, would go on to see his web series
be nominated for a Producers Guild Award.
D. In 2012, Video Game High School premiered on RocketJump; it would later be
nominated for an award.

20. While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
● The magnificent frigatebird (fregata magnificens) is a species of seabird that
feeds mainly on fish, tuna, squid, and other small sea animals.
● It is unusual among seabirds in that it doesn’t dive into the water for prey.
● One way it acquires food is by using its hook-tipped bill to snatch prey from
the surface of the water.
● Another way it acquires food is by taking it from weaker birds by force.
● This behavior is known as kleptoparasitism.
The student wants to emphasize a similarity between the two ways a magnificent frigatebird
acquires food. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to
accomplish this goal?
A. A magnificent frigatebird never dives into the water, instead using its hook-tipped bill to
snatch prey from the surface.
B. Neither of a magnificent frigatebird’s two ways of acquiring food requires the bird to dive
into the water.
C. Of the magnificent frigatebird’s two ways of acquiring food, only one is known as
kleptoparasitism.
D. In addition to snatching prey from the water with its hook-tipped bill, a magnificent
frigatebird takes food from other birds by force.
